one of these days I'm gonna like type
out the update notes before we start the
recording it'll be great all right
welcome everyone to the every two weeks
in meaning from the ILD team it's June
the 24th in UTC days and what do we have
so normally we start with a quick run of
updates and then we talk about whatever
and issues you want to talk about and I
start first because I've written down my
notes already so I oh I forgot to put
there I played around a bit also I I
will also put it there later and I put a
bit of a time also on webassembly
because so the background story is the
IPS team was is someone from the IDF s
team has supported the ribbon Shanker
from JavaScript through a simple script
to compiler to web assembly and we had a
native C implementation and the web
assembly stuff is way slower than the C
stuff
and it was just out of interest because
I found a blog post about compiling C
directly to webassembly without em
scripting so I just also wanted to play
around with it so I just wanted to port
the original version and to see if it's
any faster and so the result was it's
not any faster it just has the same
performance basically yeah because it
seems that assembly script is quite good
at creating them they were simply M code
it also is not that complex it but it
was just yeah to see works out it was
not exercised and B's
it's dead I wrote again on my dream
stuff the stack stuff so in previous
series I got working that I can load it
didn't write on D and now there is an in
save an interface called stack browser
browser and I today manage that I
actually get the salami they use JSON
the degradation object from the IP LD
store and then just get the object
directly into their web application and
it could throw the data and that's
pretty exciting because now I need to
figure out how to follow things and so
on but it's a good start
it really seems I can just plain use
their browser and just change a few
lines of code I need book work which is
pretty cool and also I think a good way
to see or like basic what we are after
is let me see if I probably actually
works for real world in these cases and
it would be pretty cool to see if I can
really get this working with the only
minimal code ranges so yeah and then
while I was doing this so this tech
krauser is losing power sell bundler
which is just a bundler for JavaScript
and it's just so bad I spent a few hours
on trying to get it compared with our
libraries until I found out that doesn't
transpile node modules and there is no
way to tell it please transpire the
dependencies into your bundle for a
certain browser versions or sub make
most versions and it's just I don't know
and its rebuy design so you can find
open issues it's by design so my
conclusion is if you build a project
chest this web pack even if we're peg is
horrible at least you can get it working
so hard so just yeah I think it works
for small projects but not if you have
any dependencies that doesn't probably
transpile or or rather you can't hide to
transpile because we do transpile but
not in their way anyway and it took me a
few hours they ever I'm into
it because yeah it's yeah horrible
anyway I think that's all I have
yeah so every do you want to go next
I have so much stuff so this was a
really hectic and exciting week or two
partially just because I posted tons and
tons of stuff that I had them sitting on
it like a 98 percent completion and now
they're just all wasted and two guests
and PRS in various places will need to
go back and draw our link suit or cook
pad for this so the selectors draft is
wasted and that's not on a PRN to the
specs repo yet because there's a bunch
of examples that need to be updated but
the schema itself is pushed so much I
think those include a completely
reasonable recursion system and there
are still some two dudes around a
conditional language but the recursion
parts themselves seem to be correctly
shaped out so that's cool I got to sit
down with some people from the falcone
project who are who have had these
desires for selectors for ages and get
like some very concrete examples of
these cases out of them so now we can
like diff against those it turns out
what they do want is one of the harder
things that we have planted to support
they have not just recursion they have a
nested recursion in their traversals but
we should be able to do so so that's
cool I hosted a POC code of selectors to
a branch on the go I filled the prime
stuff that's a very skeletal
implementation of some of the more basic
stuff but it gets the ball rolling it
sounds like from some other
conversations I've had out of banner in
the last week or two that we're going to
have Hannah maybe come over and help out
even more with fleshing out the rest of
the selectors code she she basically
said off the record that she doesn't
want to deal with any of the spec stuff
but if the spec is good and she's
perfectly happy to deal with the rest of
it so like if Anna was here thank you
[Music]
there's another round of Unix FS v2
schema draft that is in a PR
so I asked them some of our other
communication channels how people how
people feel about pushing drafts that
are kind of opinionated like that one
into the Revo I put that file there with
like timestamps and date stamps with the
idea of communicating that it is a draft
made at like a snapshot in time and it's
meant to be self-consistent but not
necessarily to live forever and not
necessarily to be on a path to being a
final spec so I would like to hear how
people feel about that as a just way of
gathering notes but I did also have a
nice conversation with Michael on the
basis of that and I think we basically
said yeah this is close and so he's been
doing a bunch of other spike stuff with
a jeaious implementation of some of the
ideas for UNIX FS me tuition s and he
has started to accumulate some
interesting logic about like how to
split up files and so we're looking at
that and we're looking at the schema
drafts and we're kind of thinking we can
meet in the middle here by putting any
of the interesting chunking logic
basically anything that's an if or above
in power level as long as we put that
inside the boundary that's cut out for
an advanced data layout or maybe maybe
even composites whatever we do there as
long as we can put that inside that
boundary then that lets us it's a nice
place to the limit the abstraction so
we'll be able to change your mind about
that in constructive ways later and
it'll just be it'll be good so with all
that stuff I'm thinking about shifting
sometime back to ski work and ideally
trying to get a skeleton of that that we
could think about beginning to power
coach and go with and somebody else from
another team kook's who's apparently
done some code general before and was
saying he might like to jump in and do
some stuff with that so I'm gonna try to
figure out if that's possible to do them
in your future yeah it was a week
I think that's the end of my list cool
things and next is rod okay so I've been
in interesting land of functional
programming community that talks a lot
about persistent data structures which
are really just immutable data
structures and they talk about them in
the same way that we talk about data
structures in IP LD and they think about
it in you know almost identical terms
[Music]
which is really interesting you don't
like they don't they don't they don't do
it for the same reasons and they've got
a lot of other concerns like optimizing
for cache locality and all that sort of
stuff but otherwise there's a lot to
mind from that community so that's been
a really interesting journey and
currently working on implementing a
vector you know like a resizable array
he basically something that you can push
to and push some elements to and it's
really efficient to to address not very
efficient - not very efficient when you
take things off the front of it but very
efficient to put things on the end of it
and it's that's working out pretty well
it's good the algorithms were a bunch of
names but it's essentially it's like a
it's like a hampt without their hash and
it mapped down to something that's very
similar to what Jeremy did with char a
he's sh a our our day Y repo and his
github I think if I pursue this thing
further and get it to respect that it
might be something that could map to
what he's done in a certain form so with
certain defaults it it could produce
what he's done
and I think I don't quite understand the
motivation for it for his thing it's but
it's so it's it's it's to do with file
coin light clients really understand
that but I believe Lua is involved and
so I think it's meant to be like very
small and and efficient or easy but yes
I'll have to figure out more about what
the motivation there is and how to align
it to get maybe to get that as well as
all the other benefits you can get from
having this basically a very large array
of IP LD ordered by index or maybe maybe
it's not quite close enough I'll see I
don't quite understand the the go code
in there but like enough to see that
it's a it's very similar anyway that's
been my main adventures for the past
couple of weeks don't think I put
anything else notable - to really
include so that's probably me cool is
there anything we want to discuss I
guess the the only thing that comes to
my mind is the as I know spend time on
actually using IPD in the browser and I
see that we really need to add or like
we should probably stick to the M JSON
at the deck chase when we have for
something similar so it's really like
you you would in the browser you really
want to have some chase a representation
that it's just like easily readable and
possible and because I convey this this
pick out from I feel about a more
advanced version basically but I think
it's not like it's I think it's a cool
thing but I think it's not like in many
movie called egg chase and so I don't
care about the names but I think it's
just something different I think the
current page Jason is pretty easy to
work with in it I think we should keep
something like the
step around because here it's just easy
similar I thought that proposals for
putting some more stuff and I was
interesting and like I feel like maybe
someday we should explore one of those
but I'd rather just put it in a new
codec and I think it's a lot easier to
do that than to expand the for better
for worse well battle-tested dag JSON
did you want to talk about protobuf
named links removal oh yeah yeah yeah I
can talk about uh that's a good point
yeah because I was sinning arrogant
email but anyway yeah okay so so the the
thing is so the problem is that in also
to explain to the thousands of live
stream watches out there and so what we
do is in a tuning surface you can
address files just directly with the
fake cough UAE used to but in iPod II
it's stored differently and if you use
ipod II you normally traverse at this
point and the current version of icon D
you traverse the data access the way it
is layout and within your object and now
we have the problem that you want to
traverse that the protocol buffers which
is the underlying thing for UNIX as for
activist is that there are basically two
ways to traverse the data and what Alex
was telling me who's working on the
JavaScript augmentation of nearing
service is that he doesn't ever use
those named links and it was a surprise
to me to be honest and so the question
is should I be LD contain those named
links at all or Ruby just remove them
because they are a huge performance it
so he did some benchmarking
it's like 8% of the times just using
those creating those named links and now
my question comes to Eric because I
guess the go I thought this thing has
something similar I guess but I'm not
sure how that complementation is doing
it so is it within the ILD Highbury or
is it just like outside and they also do
it some other freely instead of a puppy
I don't know hey I just saw your message
about that moments before this call I
think that stuff is done in the old
generation of I peeled the libraries
didn't go I think it's also I should
look before saying but I I'm pretty sure
I remember looking at something like
that before me like mmm this does not
look efficient so yeah I'm not super
sure what we will want to do about that
in the future I don't think it seems
like every time we've talked about what
we want to do for the future of
relationship between the existing dag PB
stuff and where we want to go in the
future its involved technology and
there's been a lot of you need details
in the existing tag PB stuff and maybe
we should like fess up to the fact that
basically UNIX S has to be 1 in all
users and maybe just start doing things
based on that admission and then if
anything spectrum you cut above general
purpose usage every later date so
yeah wrapped with caveats if I don't
know and I'm going off the top of my
head here I feel like we should it seems
to me like we could be pretty flexible
about what to do with these things
because it doesn't seem like there are
many consumers of this API and it seems
like the ones that are consuming it are
generally like giving it a funny look
already anyway so if we want to improve
it we should feel free I think yeah so
and what we also started on the
JavaScript side only so there's a PR
open truly changed the API from the
protocol buffers into just those things
that you're giving safest needs so it's
like like some of the other things that
we're a synchronous because of like how
I got involved and so on and but now
like provide purpose doesn't need any of
this extra stuff so we just removed it
and so I guess we basically the plan is
kind of you just ripped it down to the
bare minimum because of course we need
to maintain it for forever because of
doing this FS v1 but you want to make it
as small as possible because well less
code less bags obviously and I think the
named links is also something that is
just I mean it's certainly a cool thing
like yeah it's cool thing but if no
one's using it yeah there isn't there's
no really point of keeping it if things
still still work afterwards
and so I would lean towards removing
them and I mean even if it if it turns
out it's a problem you can just add them
back I mean if we sussed to tony find
out we break something yeah but so far
all my changes so I've never heard
anyone from the outside or like I've
never heard from anyone else using JPB
outside of happiness so yeah as far as I
know basically every piece of code I've
ever reviewed from outside of our group
has been Dec JSON and not dyed PP
dye PP is just too hard to work with so
nobody's yeah
okay so so you see
so can we conclude that we just go with
removing their named links from IPL D I
kind of feel like we should ask somebody
else who is more involved in that at the
time because I'm like I'm okay with it
but I just did not super familiar with
the history or the consequence so I
don't want to be the final opinion on
that okay but basically case so so I I
will I would take care of the stuff so
basically I will so from the IPL D team
currently the impression is we can just
be a good to go to remove it but I will
do I ask for the people who clear we
have two involved previously to see if
if it is actually a problem or not but
from the iPod D side of things there's
we don't see any issues in removing it
it's the script okay cool I'm even
thinking about perhaps we can like in
JavaScript it will be pretty simple to
just put another let's build it on top
basically as doing surface does it so if
we want to like have some demos working
or whatever movie to the tag PB named
linked library or whatever it is but
this would be something that basically I
would saw that we could build if we need
it and we hopefully never build it
that's would be my plan yeah one other
application I can think of anywhere near
this area is vector in working on some
clusters stuff mmm said to me that he
definitely wants to maintain this
ability to get in a numeration of links
all of the links in a block basically
even if they're deeper object and I told
them yeah okay we're just gonna do that
with a selector that happens to do that
and just gonna make that a expose like
that'll be a constant
selector in the library so it's really
easy to get out a helper function
pointing directly at it and that's cool
and yeah guess the the only only
permitted I could see on the transcript
site is perhaps the the ecology Explorer
like the grip UI stuff that they might
use the name links for something but I
watch it with with only if that's the
case and even those can be fixed okay
cool yeah and it still seems like you
could do a functional transform that
just gives the thing yeah yeah which is
cool II actually is but we get some
pretty basically we remove it from a car
just yeah put it somewhere else
doing it all the time for usually no
reason yeah [ __ ] couldn't the problem
and it will make the code so much easier
I currently it's a so I really don't
like that APB code currently but this
makes things way simpler cool yeah
alright is there anything else that
maybe we should note that there has been
a lot of discussion about advanced
layouts and this has been Oh generics or
whatever it is this has been occupying a
lot of our time in discussion time
anyway over the past couple of a couple
of weeks maybe I'll put some links in
the in the doc to that but there's been
just discussion about where where it
fits how it relates to schemas how did
do signaling and all those pieces so
there's very life discussions about
those things and I presume that in
person in Barcelona Eric you and Michael
of made interesting progress there so we
talked about that you know the one that
the UNIX of SVG draft highlighted and it
basically seemed good so
think I actually got a little buying now
on the idea of though at least we
certainly can use schemas for signaling
one of the things that's yeah there's
still definitely things up in the air
like as to where we stuff any parameters
my official stance is that I just don't
even care like we could just not support
parameters for advanced layouts at all
and just put that entirely and by the
implementation name - that's fine fine
by me okay yeah we should have a powwow
about the naming things I don't know if
a github issues like the greatest way to
reach a final resolution on that github
issues have this tendency to become in
forever and you can like there's no way
to vote or signal consensus and a github
issue it's just not a conversational no
that you can do in that technology she's
a continuing irritant yeah first we can
just do it at the next is think meeting
so we I can make coming up with names or
whatever but like to me it seems like
like the advanced layout stuff is still
pretty like sounds pretty clean to me to
like a rain and but we have we can hit
the discussion decks for next week using
the acronym a do for advanced data
layout in some of my personal notes and
I caught myself and I'm trying to debate
if that's a case of the assi acronym
series I'm trying to decide if that's
the case of acronyms seriously suck or
if it's actually like kind of pretty
yeah we should make like a brainstorm
gather all the crazy ideas we have ever
had documents and then just something
yeah
I've collected a couple of links for the
it's one of the mr. Michaels
one that Rick where he calls a generics
and the other one is that is your issue
Eric on signaling referencing and having
an implementation I think those are the
main the main areas of discussion other
issues and I have not think those into
my brain I think a lot of a lot of the
meaty stuff comes out of Berlin we
didn't put in person stuff yeah there's
actually those note there's something I
should mention is in the IPL d a-- / IP
LD repo there's a pull request still
waiting for reviews on with notes from
billing so be good if you guys have a
look at that just to capture that stuff
yeah there's a lot of PR and HP cleanup
we should probably just like so play
well in Thea this isn't super on topic
for meeting in particular but something
that got a lot of discussion at to make
recently that I is an idea that I'm now
kind of very pleased with and the
interested in is this idea of having a
lab notebook the idea being that like
some of these organizations that were
known for doing good research in the
past like the appointment people would
have a lab notebook write things in it
and anybody else could come look at your
lab notes but it's basically where you
put your ideas in it as they come to you
and that's just right there's no review
process it's just which is kind of the
same thing I did with one of those pr's
about the draft spec thing it doesn't
need to go anywhere I just wanted to put
somewhere a conversation maybe crumple
it up and throw it away like a dirty
page in a dirty lab notebook but at
least briefly have it on paper I don't
know if I have any great ways in minds
to like execute that strategy and like
make it fit well with him the substrate
of get but I think it would be cool if
we did more of that sort of stuff
correspondingly closed a bunch of issues
because they can live somewhere else but
that's no that's a half-baked father
this is so there wasn't so nobody nobody
had a concrete proposal for how a lab
notebook would work but for us it's just
an idea
yeah just a thought I mean we could we
could use a github wiki
bit of a black hole but they do exist
yeah the tricky part of the UX of the
thing is making sure that you can write
into it and that thing I don't know
trying to figure out how to do this well
is probably like an entire startup and a
product so I don't know maybe I'll stop
myself from thinking about it too much
no you're right though I did I feel like
this there's too many repos on too many
issues and also at the same time not
enough capturing of some of the things
that are going on in their own heads but
also when we collectively talk you know
we do these meetings are a good place to
get that stuff public but there's still
so much more context that's missing from
this and so I think I imagine you know I
know that people from the outside can
try to come in and try to get up to
speed with what we're collectively
thinking and talking about it's probably
going to be impossible
just from what we put out in public even
if you were to mine slack for that stuff
it's just not going to be enough yeah so
we do need some way of capturing it like
I even yesterday I was stumbling across
some resources with that we just I just
thought this is amazing well what do I
do with it okay pretty my head but I'd
like to be able to drop and drop a note
somewhere that this might be interesting
for other people in the future yeah I
don't know how to do it I can only think
of examples of things that I think don't
work anyway it's when I try to do it for
myself and like localhost repo I pretty
much just use date stamp files really
really heavily because that de facto
causes like a sort of mark and sweep of
garbage collection which i think is an
important factor if you're not going I'm
not trying to edit things DOS makes it
easier to emit new content that lasts
for any given project for like a year or
so before it's so many files that I
might
little way to repo again so that that
sort of works but it doesn't perfectly
work either yeah I don't know yeah I
guess it's something like like to me it
sounds something like a tiddlywiki which
is actually nice I kind of like yeah
like this killing things and so on but
yeah like yeah I I tried a few times to
really like tiddlywiki but I don't like
it's it's close like a concept sounds so
good but I don't know yeah but it's on
my to do this for several years to build
something like this and also like
perhaps like with IPL be you could just
put your notes into an iPhone the object
really cool applications we should try
to spike yes I think there's gonna be
some people coming to the ipfs camp next
week who have some interesting products
in this direction to Owens true yeah
yeah you totally juice the camp to kind
of like like asking people how their
opinions about those things like
statistic yes he see if they have good
ideas or tools even better cool um is
there anything else one of this cuts who
then I close the meeting thanks everyone
for attending and watching and see you
guys see each other again in two weeks I
won't be there because we've both got
holidays for two weeks
sorry there we go after so anyway so I
won't be here next week but yeah cool so
see then goodbye
stopping the livestream